JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
a new storm of criticism.
President Trump's
decision to abandon the
international climate accord
has global corporations,
American cities and world
leaders calling to keep up the
fight against global warming.
Then, we go to a small town in
West Virginia, one of the most
pro-Trump communities in the
country, where a group of
women are finding their voice
in protest of the president.
And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David
Brooks analyze a week
of news with potentially
historic consequences.
Plus: It's a new
season of summer TV.
We find out about some of the
best new and returning shows
coming to the small screen.
SONIA SARAIYA, "Variety":
"Master of None" is -- it's such
a delicate little, beautiful
show.
Its a half-hour, but
it's so cinematic.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Reaction to
the president's announcement
yesterday that the U.S. will
withdraw from the Paris
climate agreement has been
unusually fierce on both sides.
And, today, the White House
stood firmly by his decision.
DONALD TRUMP, President of
the United States: Thank
you very much, everybody.
This is slightly less
controversial than yesterday,
but yesterday was a big
service to this country,
I will tell you.
Thank you very much, everybody.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That was all
the president would say about
his much-awaited announcement.
Earlier in the day, however,
the head of the Environmental
Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt,
delivered an energetic defense.
SCOTT PRUITT, Environmental
Protection Agency Administrator:
We have nothing to be apologetic
about as a country.
We have reduced our
CO2 footprint to levels
of the early 1990s.
And that's been largely
accomplished through innovation
and technology, not government
mandate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nevertheless,
the announcement has touched off
a chorus of protest both here
in the U.S. and abroad.
From Berlin, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel:
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through translator): The
decision of the U.S. to withdraw
from the Paris climate
agreement is very regrettable,
and I'm expressing
myself in a very reserved
way when I say that.
We in Germany, in Europe and
in the world are now more
determined than ever to pool
all our strength to face one
of the challenges of humankind.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Paris,
France's newly elected
President Emmanuel Macron
offered this appeal
reinforced by
speaking in English.
EMMANUEL MACRON, French
President: To all
scientists, engineers,
entrepreneurs, responsible
citizens who were disappointed
by the decision of the president
of the United States, I want
to say that they will find
in France a second homeland.
I call on them, come
and work here with us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Both leaders said
they wouldn't renegotiate the
deal, as President Trump said
he was prepared to do.
Meanwhile, in Brussels,
officials from China,
the world's largest
emitter of greenhouse
gases, met with European
counterparts and reaffirmed
their commitment.
Support also poured in from
the U.S. corporate world.
More than two dozen
companies, including
oil giant Shell, Apple,
Facebook and Morgan Stanley,
had signed a letter urging
Mr. Trump to stay in the pact.
Separately, General Electric
CEO Jeff Immelt and Tesla
chief Elon Musk argued the move
would cost the U.S. jobs.
Disney's chief, Bob Iger,
joined Musk in resigning
from presidential advisory
committees in protest.
Peabody Energy,one of
the country's largest
coal companies, did
come out in support of
the president's decision.
And Russia's President Vladimir
Putin said continued dialogue
was necessary at an event
moderated by NBC News
anchor Megyn Kelly.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through
translator): Rather
than make noise over it,
we need to create conditions
for mutual work, because if
countries that are big emitters,
like the United States, will
not take part at all, it will
be impossible to negotiate
and sign any kind of agreement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back at the White
House, the EPA's Pruitt said
the president has made clear
he's willing to work with
anyone on a better deal.
But when pressed on whether Mr.
Trump actually believes that
humans play a role in climate
change, Pruitt
skirted the question.
SCOTT PRUITT: The discussions
the president and I have had
over the last several weeks
have been focused on one
key issue: Is Paris good
or bad for this country?
He determined it was
bad for our country.
It hurt us economically.
It didn't achieve good
environmental outcomes.
And he made the decision
to reject the Paris deal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, oil
prices tumbled amid speculation
the U.S. withdrawal would
boost domestic oil production,
adding to an already
saturated global supply.
We will put some of the facts
and claims behind climate change
into context right after the
news summary.
In the day's other news:
U.S. employers pulled
back a bit on hiring last
month, but the unemployment
rate still dropped, to its
lowest point in 16 years.
The Labor Department's
monthly report showed a net
gain of 138,000 jobs in May.
And it posted a loss
of one-tenth of a point
in the unemployment
rate to 4.3 percent.
We will explore the numbers
and what they mean a little
later in the program.
There is word tonight that
special counsel Robert Mueller's
special investigation into
possible ties between
Russia and the Trump
campaign may be growing.
The Associated Press reports
that Mueller is taking over an
ongoing criminal investigation
involving former Trump
campaign chair Paul Manafort.
The probe reportedly may also
expand to look into the role of
Attorney General Jeff Sessions
and the deputy attorney
general in the firing of
FBI Director James Comey.
In the Philippines, police
are still trying to figure out
what motivated a lone attacker
who set fire to a Manila
casino, resulting in
the deaths of 36 people.
They suffocated in the heavy
smoke, their bodies not
discovered until hours later.
The gunman was found dead
elsewhere in the complex.
MAN: We are still investigating
and trying to ascertain why
somebody will be so senseless
and have such a motive.
That is still to be determined.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Police say they
have ruled out terror as a
motive, despite the Islamic
State group claiming
responsibility.
A protest over security
in Afghanistan's capital
turned violent today,
and several demonstrators
were killed.
It happened in Kabul, just
days after 90 people died
in a huge truck bombing.
More than 1,000
people marched today.
Some threw rocks as
they charged police.
Officers fired into the
air at first and also used
tear gas and water cannons.
The U.N. Security Council has
voted to slap more sanctions on
North Korea over its continued
missile testing.
The U.S. and China backed
the resolution today.
It blacklists more than a
dozen North Korean individuals
and other entities, including
a bank and part of the
North Korean military.
Russia's President Vladimir
Putin is appealing for improved
ties with the United States,
and again denying any improper
actions by his government.
He spoke today at a
forum with other leaders
in Saint Petersburg,
and said relations are
at their lowest point
since the Cold War.
VLADIMIR PUTIN (through
translator): Therefore,
I think it is necessary
to stop this useless
and unhelpful chatter.
I want to stress it once again:
It is an attempt to bring
internal political squabbling in
the United States to
the international arena.
It is an attempt to
solve internal political
problems using foreign
policy instruments.
It is harmful.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Putin
also dismissed the
focus on the Russian
ambassador's meetings with
Trump aides as -- quote --
"catastrophic nonsense."
Separately, the Russian
president denied that
his ally President
Bashar al-Assad of Syria
used chemical weapons on
his own people in April.
He said others carried
out the attack as a - -
quote -- "provocation."
In South Sudan, at least 15
young children have died after
a botched measles vaccination
campaign.
It happened early last month.
The World Health Organization
said that untrained workers used
a single syringe for all the
children, and that the
vaccine was stored without
refrigeration for days.
Back in this country, the Trump
administration has formally
asked the U.S. Supreme Court
to reinstate a travel ban on
six Muslim-majority countries.
Lower courts have so far blocked
the ban from taking effect.
Last night, the Justice
Department asked the high
court to decide if it
will hear the government's
appeal, and to reinstate
the ban in the meantime.
The former president of Penn
State University will serve
time behind bars for his role in
covering up child sexual
abuse by an ex-assistant
football coach.
Graham Spanier will spend two
months in jail, and up to 10
months under house arrest.
Two other former
university officials
also received jail time.
Jerry Sandusky is serving a
prison sentence of 30 to 60
years for sexually abusing 10
boys.
And on Wall Street today,
stocks shook off the lukewarm
jobs report to again close at
all-time highs.
The Dow Jones industrial
average gained 62 points
to close at 21206.
The Nasdaq rose 59 points
to close at 6305, and
the S&P 500 added nine.
For the week, the Dow
and the S&P each gained
a fraction of 1 percent.
The Nasdaq added
about 1.5 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
putting the president's
claims about the Paris accord
in context; what the latest
jobs numbers say about the
health of the nation's economy;
women taking a stand in
Trump country; And much more.
We return now to the president's
decision to withdraw from
the Paris climate accord.
We want to take a closer look
at some of the claims President
Trump made during his remarks
in the Rose Garden yesterday.
William Brangham has that.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: As president, I
can put no other consideration
before the well-being
of American citizens.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In his
announcement yesterday,
President Trump gave
several reasons why he
thought the Paris
accord was a bad idea.
The main points the president
made was that the Paris accord
is unfair to the U.S., that
it would hurt American workers,
and that it won't really slow
the pace of dangerous climate
change.
So, let's go through
some of those claims.
The first thing the president
said was, we will get out of
Paris, but maybe we will strike
a better deal.
DONALD TRUMP: Begin negotiations
to reenter either the Paris
accord, or a really entirely
new transaction, on terms that
are fair to the United States.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But leaders
from many of the other 195
nations in the deal said there
was no appetite
for renegotiation.
French President Emmanuel Macron
summed up the view of many.
EMMANUEL MACRON, French
President (through translator):
He committed an error for the
interests of his country,
his people and a mistake for
the future of our planet.
We will not renegotiate
a less ambitious accord.
There is no way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: President
Trump also implied that the
Paris accords are binding on the
United States.
But they're not.
The entire accord relies
on voluntary commitments,
so many argue that, if
the president wanted
to stay in and wanted to
change the U.S.' commitment,
he's largely free to do so.
Jason Grumet is the president
of the Bipartisan Policy Center.
®MD-BJASON GRUMET, President,
Bipartisan Policy Center: What
was unique about the Paris
accord is that it was
essentially a collection
of 200 individual promises.
Every country came forward
and made a unique commitment.
And each country has
the capacity to reassert
it own commitments.
So, I think it's entirely
reasonable for President
Trump to say, I'm
uncomfortable with this
aspect of what the United
States committed and, therefore,
we're going to take a somewhat
different approach.
The U.S. would obviously have
much more capacity to influence
the choices, views and efforts
of others if we were part
of that conversation.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Another one
of the main complaints the
president made: This will hurt
U.S. jobs.
DONALD TRUMP: Compliance
with the terms of the
Paris accord and the
onerous energy restrictions
it has placed on the United
States could cost America as
much as 2.7 million lost jobs by
2025, according to the National
Economic Research Associates.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
international mining
giant Peabody Energy
applauded the president's
move.
"Peabody believes that this
path cannot be followed without
substantially impacting the
U.S. economy, increasing
electricity costs on families
and businesses, and requiring
the power sector to rely
on less diverse and more
intermittent energy sources."
But others point out that
study about lost jobs that the
president cited was written
by groups that are opposed to
the Paris accords, and that they
used some worst-case predictions
that other economists
believe are unrealistic.
Asked about this on NBC this
morning, Commerce Secretary
Wilbur Ross defended using these
studies.
WILBUR ROSS, U.S. Commerce
Secretary: Well, you should
know what your downside is.
That's an important thing.
And particularly when you're
trying to forecast events many
years out into the future, it's
very, very difficult
to be accurate.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Roberton
Williams is an economist with
Resources For the Future, a
nonpartisan group that
studied the Paris accord.
ROBERTON WILLIAMS, Resources
For the Future: What we have
modeled in terms of job effects
is that it's much more of a
job shift than it is job loss
or net job gain, that jobs
go away in coal, and you get
more jobs in some green jobs,
renewable energy, small effects
elsewhere.
But there is not a big
-- it is not a big drop.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The president
also argued that while coal
jobs in the U.S. would suffer,
other nations like India
and China, the other
two major global carbon
polluters, would have
a free hand.
DONALD TRUMP: China will be
able to increase these emissions
by a staggering number of
years, 13.
They can do whatever
they want for 13 years.
Not us.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But Jason
Grumet said it wasn't true that
other countries can do whatever
they want.
JASON GRUMET: The assertion that
the United States fundamentally
disabled our economy,
while other countries move
forward with absolutely no
concern is just not accurate.
I think that the U.S. made
some meaningful commitments.
And I think it's perfectly
reasonable for President Trump
to suggest that we want to
reconsider those commitments.
Renegotiating the United States'
commitments is absolutely right.
But it is an exaggeration to
suggest that other countries
were not sincere or did not
make meaningful commitments.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The president
also touched on an issue that
is central to the Paris accord,
which is: Can it achieve
its stated goal of
preventing the planet
from warming an additional
two degrees Celsius, or
about 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit?
Yesterday, the president
said the accord will barely
affect global temperatures.
DONALD TRUMP: Even if the Paris
agreement were implemented in
full, with total compliance
from all nations, it is
estimated it would only
produce a two-tenths
of one degree -- think
of that, this much -- Celsius
reduction in global temperature
by the year 2100, tiny,
tiny amount.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Again,
there's a question of where this
data comes from, and whether
the president's statement
accurately reflects the science.
The White House said the
president was citing this study
done by researchers at MIT.
But MIT said today the president
misused their research.
JOHN REILLY, MIT: The president
really took the study out of
context by pointing out this
two-tenths of a degree.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: John Reilly
is co-author of this MIT report.
JOHN REILLY: This was the
incremental effect of Paris
compared to the previous accord.
Altogether, if we look at
past policy, we think that's
reduced warming by a full degree
Celsius.
We still have more we need
to do to get to the ultimate
goal of two degrees, but Paris
is an important
step along that way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And Roberton
Williams argues that even a
minor slowing of global warming
can hold off some
major destruction.
ROBERTON WILLIAMS: Even
small changes in temperature,
even small reductions
below that what we get
without any action, can make
a big difference in how much
damage there is to the world.
So, even tenths of a degree
can make a difference of
hundreds of billions of dollars.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Yesterday,
the president said the U.S.
will formally withdraw from
the accord.
It's a process that could take
several years to complete.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The climate
decision raises question about
the economy, and so does today's
jobs report.
In it, the unemployment
rate dropped to its
lowest point in 16 years,
causing some economists
to raise the prospect of what
they call full employment.
But job growth seems to
have slowed considerably.
With the latest revisions,
the economy is generating an
average, we're told, of about
120,000 net new jobs each month.
To get some insight into all of
this, we're joined from Chicago
by Diane Swonk, an economist
who runs her own firm.
Diane Swonk, welcome
back to the program.
So, overall, what do you
make of these jobs numbers
for the month of May?
DIANE SWONK, Founder, DS
Economics: Well, certainly,
they were a disappointment.
That said, we don't need to
generate as many jobs as we once
did to keep the unemployment
rate steady or even fall.
Of course, the unemployment
rate itself fell for the wrong
reasons in the month of May.
And that is that
the participation
rate fell yet again.
We're seeing more people retire
out of the labor force and men
in particular didn't participate
as much in the month of May.
That is something we like
to see moving in reverse
at this stage of the game.
JUDY WOODRUFF: When you say,
Diane, that the country, you
said we don't need to generate
as many jobs as we once
did, what do you mean?
DIANE SWONK: Well, basically,
the labor force isn't
growing very rapidly anymore.
And even though the economy
is very subdued in its growth
at 2 percent, you just don't
need to create very many jobs
to absorb those workers coming
into the labor force and keep
the unemployment
rate going down.
We have actually seen
job growth slow and the
unemployment rate fall.
And that is because we're near
what we call full employment.
That sounds good in terms.
What it really means
in economist terms and
for the Federal Reserve
is nearly all of those
people who are employable
or are employed or who are
looking for a job are now sort
of either between jobs because
they wanted to be between
jobs or are just coming into
the labor force, but it's
not a lot of extra slack
in the U.S. economy.
That said, it doesn't mean all
those people who want a job
in the U.S. economy or have
dropped out and are not
looking can actually get a job.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Diane, you were
telling us earlier today that
the focus on jobs obscures
the need to look at
raising skill levels.
Talk about that.
DIANE SWONK: Exactly.
One of -- there are two reasons
why we saw the wage gains
slow in the month of May from
a year ago.
It is only up at a
2.5 percent rate.
This is something we like to see
going in the other direction.
If you are near full employment,
wages should be accelerating.
One reason is because
millennials are replacing
older baby boomers
and they're paid less.
That is not a bad reason
for wage growth slowing.
The other reason is that we are
seeing many employers out there
dip further into lower-skilled
workers, but instead of paying
them more, they are actually
investing in training, because
they don't have the skills
necessary to do the jobs they
have or they are leaving job
positions open.
The shortages in construction
are particularly acute
and manufacturing, which
actually contracted.
We still have over 300,000
jobs that aren't filled just
because people don't have the
right skills.
So we would do much better to
enhance the skills of those out
there who are on the sidelines
and not participating right
now to bring them back in, than
just give them tax cuts to cut
low wages.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And very quickly,
finally, Diane, we took note
yesterday when President
Trumped talked about the country
having created, I think, he
said a million jobs since the
election last November.
Does that reflect
what's been going on?
DIANE SWONK: It is
a bit of a stretch.
We have created 800,000 jobs
since the beginning of the year.
If you want to do it
since he's been president,
it's about 600,000 jobs.
So, depending on how he wants
to count, I think it is a
little early for him to take
credit one way or the other,
and might be careful what he
wants to take credit for in
terms of job gains.
I think it is going to
get better going forward,
but the bottom line
is, that is not really
the way to count it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Diane
Swonk joining us from
Chicago, thanks very much.
DIANE SWONK: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Mark Shields and David Brooks
take on the week's news;
50 years later, a
reporter's account of the
Arab-Israeli Six-Day War;
and the most binge-worthy
TV hits of the summer.
But first: how last year's
election results shook up one
West Virginia town and how the
reverberations continue
to sow division.
Hari Sreenivasan
has more on that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Buckhannon
is a town with a population
of less than 6,000.
It's a deeply conservative
place with a long
history tied to coal.
Its mayor calls it the most
Trumpian place in America.
But Buckhannon is also
where a growing group of
women are finding their
voice through protest
and where speaking up has
angered some people, including
the men in their lives.
Our Elizabeth Flock has
published a deep look
at these divisions and
the women on the front
lines.
It sounds like a tough
climate to protest Trump.
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Absolutely.
I think it's very isolating for
a lot of the women in the town.
They are just about 70 women
in a town of 6,000, and most
of the town doesn't agree
with them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And so how
does the town respond when
they see these women picketing
policies of the
Trump administration?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Not well.
They have gotten a lot
of pushback from the
town, from everyone from
the local fraternity
brothers at the nearby college,
to their husbands, to their
neighbors, to people at the high
school,.
Some of their kids have
been made fun of for
the women protesting.
Other women go home at night
and their husbands get after
them for appearing on the front
page with a protest sign.
So, for them, I think
it's a constant struggle
to keep protesting, in
light of the reaction
that they are getting.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As you point
out, a lot of these women
were not engaged in this way
before this election.
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Absolutely not.
Most of them told me the only
political participation they had
up until this point was voting.
Most of them had never
held a protest sign.
This was very new to them.
I think what is interesting is,
this wasn't an organized thing.
A lot of these women just
decided individually that after
the election they wanted to do
something, they wanted
to go out and protest.
They went to the county -- in
front of the county Courthouse
and held a sign, and they
found that there were
other women there
doing the same thing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, as
you point out, their protests
are met with counterprotests.
What is that like?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Well, the most
striking example was after the
announcement of the proposed
travel ban, when the
women did a march at
the county courthouse,
and a number of trucks
showed up in counterprotest,
mostly men, members of
the local fraternity
from the nearby college
and other locals, and
basically spewed smoke at the
women as they were marching.
They were enveloped in a
huge cloud of black smoke,
dropped firecrackers.
It was a scary scene in which
a lot of the women tried not
to run or scream and give
the men the reaction
that they wanted.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What are
the actions that these women
are taking that they hope have
long-term consequences?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: So, obviously
showing up in the streets with
posters and sort of telling
the town of Buckhannon
that we are here and not
everyone agrees with you.
They are lobbying
local representatives.
One of the women held a town
hall with the Republican --
for the Republican senator,
who didn't show up.
So, she held this town hall
anyway to an empty chair.
And a lot of them are traveling
to meet with other -- they
are part of the Indivisible
group.
And they're traveling to
meet other Indivisible
groups, which is a liberal
anti-Trump grassroots
organization.
And so they are sort
of connecting the dots
with other grassroots
progressive organizations
that are fighting
against Trump's policies
around the country.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And speaking
of around the country, is
this a microcosm of something
that is happening elsewhere?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: I do
think this -- Buckhannon
is -- it's one small town
where this is happening,
but there are a lot of
indications that there
are women who are doing
this across the country.
You know, 11,000 women are
considering running for office
for the first time, according to
EMILY's List, after
Trump's election.
Obviously, the women's march
was a huge show of interest
by women in participating.
And the Indivisible
groups have been spreading
across the country.
I think there's
6,000 of them now.
And after the story came out,
a lot of women from rural
areas wrote and said that, this
really resonated with me and
this is what is going on in our
town as well, in Pennsylvania,
in Ohio, across Appalachia,
and basically said
we're also protesting.
It is really hard for us here.
It is really isolating, because
people don't agree with us,
and we're doing it anyway.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Plenty to follow up on.
Liz Flock, thanks
for joining us.
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At the end of
another week jam-packed with
news from Washington, it's
time for Shields and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist
Mark Shields and New York
Times columnist David Brooks.
Welcome, gentleman.
So, what is there to talk about,
Mark, but yesterday's climate
change decision, the president's
announcement that the United
States will pull out of
the Paris climate accord?
What did you make of it?
MARK SHIELDS: In immediate
impact, Judy, it probably means
less in the American environment
than the rules and
regulations already repealed
by his administration
and by his EPA that
were put in force, emissions
controlled by President Obama.
But, in a larger sense,
it belies and reveals
that president's
sense about the world.
The world is a dangerous,
sinister place.
There's conspiracies.
Other countries are not
our friends, are partners.
Everything is transactional.
There are no fixed values.
We saw that, I thought most
dramatically, at NATO, where
the president showed an absolute
absence of any historical
understanding of
American exceptionalism.
And, as one who frankly
subscribes to it that
three times in the
20th century the United
States saved the world from
totalitarianism, twice in World
Wars, once in the Cold War,
and 124,965 American graves
around the world in cemeteries,
and 94,000 still missing.
And I just don't understand.
The president knows
that it was for values.
And when NATO has made
mistakes, we have made mistakes.
We have been guilty of hubris.
But the world is a much
better place because of the
United States' leadership.
And this was an example of
the United States working with
other nations for a common good
to preserve our planet.
And he just turned
his back on it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did you make
of the president's decision and
his argument for why he did it?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, well,
I sort of agree with Mark.
It was nice to have
an American century.
We were a superpower once.
And now we're headed
the way of Portugal.
No, it was --
environmentally, I can't
get super excited about it.
I think it was a
setback for the cause of
addressing global warming.
But, as we have heard
many times, it was a
voluntary agreement.
And so this -- and we have done
a very good job, because of
natural gas and fracking and
other things, of reducing
emissions over the
last five years or so.
And I presume the market
will still work and the
emissions will still come down.
And so we -- Donald Trump could
have addressed his concerns
about coal workers and stayed
in the Paris accords.
There is nothing block.
It was totally voluntary.
So this wasn't about
global warming.
This wasn't about
the environment.
This was about sticking a thumb
in the eye of polite society,
the elites, the globalists.
This was a Steve Bannon-led
thing designed to change
America's role in the world.
And so, to me, the
effect is much worse
on the global diplomacy
and the idea of a world
order than it is, at
least in the short-term,
about climate change.
And the effects, I
think, are ruinous.
You can't lead the world
and stick your thumb in
the eye of the world.
People -- if you act extremely
selfishly to other people, they
will start acting extremely
selfishly to you.
And that is about to happen.
And so as the idea that America
could lead the world and
should influence the world and
should have friendship with
other powerful nations in the
world, that's an idea that
took a big hit this week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as
we famously heard him
say, yesterday, Mark,
the president said,
I'm here to represent the
people of Pittsburgh, and
not the people of Paris.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes, no, it
was a nice alliterative
line that didn't have
much relevance in reality,
Pittsburgh having supported
Hillary Clinton and
basically being a green city.
And I think it was a
political statement.
One can say, in defense
of the president, I
guess, he kept his word.
He hasn't been known as
a truth-teller always.
No one has confused him with
George Washington on veracity.
But he kept his word
on the Trans-Pacific
treaty, trade treaty.
He kept his word on NATO and
that he was going to belittle
it, or at least diminish it.
And he kept his word here.
And I think that was probably
the strongest argument inside.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
Yes, I'm just struck by the fact
that his is an administration
driven solely by resentment.
He will side with the Steve
Bannon side if that position
will alienate the people he
feels resentful for.
He will side with the
regular Republican side
and the budgetary, the
more free market side
if that will offend
elite opinion.
It seems to be all based on
some sense of resentment, a
sense of social inferiority,
a sense of fragile ego, him
just wanting to stick the eye
in the people he is resenting.
And I -- more than any other
time -- we have talked about
Trump not telling the truth a
lot over the last year.
But that global warming speech
to me set new standards of
just being irrelevant to the
facts.
We devote our lives to
talking about the evidence.
We write these wonky
columns about exciting
things and this and that.
And what Donald Trump said about
the Paris accord is -- just
has no engagement with reality.
The fact that somehow we're
bound by this, somehow that
we would be under some sort of
legal liability if we didn't
abide by the Paris accords,
the fact that the Chinese are
given permission by Paris to
do this and we're not, all that
has no contact reality, and
it doesn't seem like
Donald Trump knows that.
MARK SHIELDS: He doesn't.
DAVID BROOKS: As a number
of commentators made, it
doesn't seem like lying.
It just seems like willful
ignorance and disinterest.
And we have had a lot
of presidents with a
lot of disagreements,
but there has been an
attachment to some sort of
basic research, some basic
contact with reality, which it
seems there has just
been a failure of
intellectual virtue here.
And because there is some
underlying psychological
issues which is he is
working out, and whatever
he needs to do that, the facts
have to fit that lower reality.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
I would just add to that, Judy,
what compounds it is not --
if you are on the other side
of the argument, you are not
wrong, you are not mistaken,
your facts aren't incorrect.
You are evil, you are
part of a conspiracy.
And whatever one thinks, we
are all, all of us, all human
beings, are passengers on this
little spaceship of
ours with very precious
supplies, vulnerable
supplies of air and water
and soil.
And, you know, any attempt
to make it rational, to
make it just, to help
human -- make people
more safe and secure and
healthy is to be commended.
And he's all of a sudden
really did regard this as
selling out the United States.
And to cede to China the
leadership in the green
industry, is an abdication.
He accused Barack Obama,
and so did many Republicans,
of leading from the rear.
And this is retweeting to the
rear at every possible level.
And I just cannot overstate
the NATO -- NATO brought a
sustained period of peace, more
sustained than any time
since the French Revolution,
to the continent of Europe.
I mean, that is an achievement
of such historical magnitude.
And to just dismiss it.
He is not even aware of it.
I don't think he understands it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: From a purely
political standpoint, David, the
president, one assumes he think
this is a smart thing to do.
I mean, is it a smart
thing for him to do?
DAVID BROOKS: I think so.
Yes, I do think so.
Environment has never
driven political
voters, I do not think.
I can't remember a time
when environmental issues
really rose to that level.
And any time you can pit the
economy vs. the environment,
say I'm siding with the economy,
politically -- again, not on
the merits, not what I think
of it -- I think it is probably
a winning issue.
Then, finally, just remember,
this is an administration
who is polling and whose
interest is focused
on about 12 states.
And that's a lot
of coal country.
And so if people in that
part of the world, with some
justice, some minor justice, see
Donald Trump as their
savior against the
elites in Paris, then,
politically -- taking aside
the merits, politically,
I think it is probably
a good move for him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you agree
it's winning politically?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I thought
Governor Jerry Brown made a
case last night in his interview
with you, pointed out
that California has
the toughest, greenest
standards of the country,
far more draconian by Trump's
standard, measure, than
anything, environmentally.
Two million new jobs, a gross
domestic product grown 40
percent fastest than the nation,
in spite of, because
of the greenness.
So, I think a case can be made.
But I just think
-- I don't know.
I just think there is a limit
to the isolation and this sort
of -- this defensive paranoid,
whatever you call
it, nationalism.
It isn't even nationalism.
It is just sort of everybody,
all strangers, they are all
-- you know, they are all bad.
They wish us no well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: An us vs. them.
MARK SHIELDS: On every matter.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, but do you
notice how what used to be
substantive disagreements turn
into cultural wars?
It's like the gun issue.
It used to be the gun issue,
gun control was about which kind
of guns we should have floating
around in our society.
But then it became
rural vs. urban.
And the substance didn't
actually matter that much.
And one has the sense with
global warming it's a not
about substance anymore.
It is about what culture
-- in our cultural divide,
which culture are you on?
And so he aligned with
one culture, a rural
culture, which is his base.
And that is why I think, from
his point of view, it solidifies
that, which he needs to
survive.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it seems
like a long time ago, but it
was just -- really just really
a couple of days ago, Mark, that
we were hearing reports about
the White House in disarray,
the president planning to fire
or rearrange - - fire people,
rearrange the staff in an
attempt to get beyond
the focus on the Russia
investigation, everything else.
You couple that with the Paris
announcement, do you see this
White House in any sense getting
beyond, getting its hands
around the dysfunction that
appears to be gripping...
MARK SHIELDS: I really don't.
I really don't, Judy.
I mean, just imagine
yourself, you are Reince
Priebus, you are the chief
of staff, and complained
to a friend, look, said he
hadn't been able to spend time
with his children for the past
four months.
And what does he read
every day in the paper?
The president called him
Reincy, refers to him as Reincy.
He's going to be
ambassador to Greece.
They are going to get him out.
They're going to replace him.
Who is going to replace him?
You can't be thrive, you can't
be productive in that kind
of an environment, where you
are looking over your shoulder
at who is conspiring over
here and what faction?
Are you Kushner
or are you Bannon?
And it just -- Judy, they
work long hours, they work
hard, and they're uncertain.
They're being sniped at.
There is no appreciation,
there's no sense
of shared mission.
And the reward is when
you tell the president
what he wants to hear.
It's the antithesis of Jim
Baker and Ronald Reagan, where
a president was secure enough
and confident enough to ask a
chief of staff for advice that
he didn't want to hear, that
was tough.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does
all this matter, David,
quickly or inside baseball?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, it
matters if we don't have an
effective administration.
Reince Priebus has the ultimate
job security right now, because
nobody else wants the job,
so they can't get rid
of him, because somebody
has got to do it.
But I do think it makes the
prospect of a functional White
House very remote, because
you can't get new people
because they don't want it.
The current people are in some
sort of war with each other.
And every time we hear
about something internal,
whether it was the
decision-making over global
warming, or the shambolic
attempt to get an FBI
director, it just sounds
like disorganization.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And more reports
tonight about investigations
with the Mueller probe.
David Brooks, Mark
Shields, thank you both.
Monday marks the 50th
anniversary of the beginning
of the June 1967 Six-Day
War, fought between
Israel and several
neighboring Arab nations.
The swift Israeli
victory was total.
But no one knew at the time,
and in the war's aftermath,
that many of the dividing lines
struck would define
relations in the region
for the ensuing 50 years.
Former "NewsHour" correspondent
Terence Smith reported on
the war then for The New York
Times, and he remembers those
historic days for us now.
TERENCE SMITH, Former "NewsHour"
Correspondent: The Six-Day War
between Israel and her Arab
neighbors began 50 years ago
shortly after dawn on the hot,
dry morning of June 5, 1967.
In the course of six frantic
days, Israel decimated the
armies and air forces of Egypt,
Jordan and Syria, and redrew
the map of the Middle East.
The war created a
stalemate between Israel
and the Palestinians
in Jerusalem and the
West Bank that
persists to this day.
It is the same stand-off
that confronted President
Trump on his recent visit.
I covered the battle for
Jerusalem and the West
Bank as an incredibly
green, inexperienced
correspondent for
The New York Times.
I had arrived in Israel just 10
days before on my first foreign
assignment for the paper,
and I knew nothing.
Scrambling after the Israeli
army units as they conquered the
ancient Old City of Jerusalem,
I followed them inside as they
took control of the Western
Wall, the retaining wall of
the Second Temple.
Suddenly, the troops were
face-to-face with the
holiest site in Judaism.
Israelis had not been
able to visit or pray
at the wall since 1948.
It was quite a moment.
I covered the Israeli units
as they swept through the West
Bank, driving Jordan's Arab
legion from Bethlehem
down to Jericho and to the
banks of the Jordan River.
Burned-out Jordanian tanks
and armored personnel
carriers littered the highway.
Where the troops stopped then
is the armistice line today.
The fighting in Jerusalem
and on the West Bank had been
fierce, with heavy casualties,
but it was largely
over in 96 hours.
Israelis and Palestinians
alike were stunned.
Suddenly, two peoples
who had been separated by
the so-called Green Line
for 19 years confronted
each other.
Both sides were curious
about the other.
As soon as they could,
ordinary Israelis poured
into the walled Old City.
Curiosity and the universal
human instinct for bargains
drove them into the shops in
the narrow streets
of the Old City.
The shelves on the Jordanian
side were stocked with duty-free
electronics and small luxuries
that were unavailable
or much more expensive
in high-tariff Israel.
The bargains flew
off the shelves.
And not just ordinary Israelis.
Teddy Kollek, the mayor of
Israeli Jerusalem, and Israel's
defense minister, Moshe Dayan,
both famous antiquities
collectors, descended
on the Arab dealers
in East Jerusalem and
negotiated for ancient treasures
to add to their collections.
Palestinians began to explore
West Jerusalem and meet
Israelis for the first time.
A few had the nerve to travel
to Jaffa to visit homes that
they or their parents had
fled in 1948.
In the process of getting
to know each other in
the first weeks after
the war, Palestinians
discovered that Israelis were
not, in fact, 10 feet-tall, and
Israelis found that Palestinians
were not, in fact,
all cutthroats.
It wasn't all
sweetness and light.
A lot of blood had been spilled.
But people on either side of the
Green Line wanted to see what
they could while they could.
There was a shared assumption
that, because the Israeli
victory had been so total, that,
this time, some sort of
peace was inevitable.
It was an assumption, not
necessarily an aspiration,
not for everyone.
People on both sides expected
that the cease-fire would be
replaced by an agreement, Israel
would give up some of the
occupied territory, just as it
had during the Suez crisis nine
years earlier, and that,
this time, finally,
there would be peace.
How could it not?
No one I spoke to in
those months after the
war thought that the
stand-off between Israel
and the Palestinians
would last for 50 years.
Even the deeply cynical Moshe
Dayan famously said he was
just waiting for the phone to
ring from the other
side to negotiate peace.
It wasn't to be.
By the fall of that year, the
Arab states met in Khartoum
and agreed on their famous
three no's: no negotiation,
no recognition, no
peace with Israel.
At the same time, the first
Jewish settlers had established
a rump settlement on the West
Bank, promising not to leave.
I remember asking Dayan at a
news conference, what was going
to be done about the settlers?
"If we can solve the big
issues," he told me, "the
settlers will be no problem."
Today, there are some 400,000
Israelis settlers in the West
Bank and 350,000 more in East
Jerusalem.
They are still promising not
to leave, and constitute a
major political voice on the
right in Israel.
So, the elements of
a deadlock, the same
deadlock that has defied a
solution for 50 years, were
in place before
the year was out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight:
There was a time when summer
TV was largely confined
to reruns.
But that has changed
dramatically in the
world of streaming video.
And, in fact, a new summer
season is under way.
Jeffrey Brown has a look.
JEFFREY BROWN: The summer season
has changed so much, that it's
now when some of the best-known
shows debut new episodes.
High on that list, the fantasy
series "Game of Thrones," which
run the Emmy for best drama
and is back on HBO.
"Orange Is the New Black" will
air new episodes on Netflix.
NBC returns with its
surprise comedy hit
"The Carmichael Show."
And there are plenty
of new options such
as "Claws," a Southern
crime drama with a comic
edge that comes to TNT, a show
about the founding of the first
women's wrestling federation
called "GLOW" on Netflix, and a
Showtime drama about struggling
comics in the 1970s called
"I'm Dying Up Here."
Two TV critics, I hope they're
not dying where we are talking
to them, from all of television.
They're going to help us
sort through the season, Eric
Deggans of NPR and Sonia Saraiya
of "Variety."
Thanks, both, for joining us.
I don't know how you keep up
with this, but help us out here.
First of all, Eric,
summer season, does it
actually mean anything?
Is there any rhyme
or reason anymore?
ERIC DEGGANS, National Public
Radio: Well, you know, TV is
a business that loves habits.
And so, for the
broadcasters especially,
there is a summer season.
I think it's less so for
the cable nets, and it's
even less so for the
streamers like Netflix,
which seem to churn out a new
series just about every week.
But there is a sense that the
TV season is slowing down a
little bit, and we're seeing
shows that are less than
marquee shows debuting
during the next few months.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Sonia, let
me start with you with one of
the new ones coming -- I mean,
one of the old ones coming
back, a successful one, is
Aziz Ansari's "Master of None."
Let's take -- first, let's
take a quick look at a clip.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI,
Actress: This is really good.
AZIZ ANSARI, Actor: I told you.
Aren't you glad you
expanded your culinary
horizons beyond Italian?
ALESSANDRA
MASTRONARDI: Yes, I am.
You're right.
What else should I try
when I'm in New York?
AZIZ ANSARI: Indian food.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI:
No, nobody likes curry.
AZIZ ANSARI: Racist.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI: I
said I don't like curry food.
I didn't say I don't
like curry people.
AZIZ ANSARI: All right, I was
kidding earlier, but the phrase
curry people, definitely racist.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI:
I'm not racist.
AZIZ ANSARI: You can't
say curry person.
I'm not a curry person.
I'm not defined by the
flavors my people enjoy.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sonia, I saw you
both actually smiling watching
or even listening to that.
Sonia, tell us why
you like that show.
SONIA SARAIYA, "Variety": You
know, "Master of None" is --
it's such a delicate little,
beautiful show.
Its a half-hour, but
it's so cinematic.
There is -- actually, the
second season references
Italian cinema a lot.
You know, it's Aziz Ansari more
or less playing himself, you
know, trying to understand his
life and figure out the world.
And, you know, a big thing
that motivates him, as you
can sort of tell, that's kind
of a date that he is on in
that clip, and, you know,
figuring out his love life is a
big part of it.
But at the end of the first
season, he decided he wanted
to go to Italy and learn how to
make pasta because that
was something that he
wanted to do in his life.
The second season is
about him broadening
his horizons even more.
It is like a lovely little
vacation, that show.
JEFFREY BROWN: Eric, I'm going
to have you tell us about "House
of Cards," because, indeed,
Kevin Spacey and Robin
Wright are back as Frank
and Claire Underwood.
Let's look at a
little clip of that.
ROBIN WRIGHT, Actress: Why
did you ask him to leave?
KEVIN SPACEY, Actor: Because
I just wanted to look in your
eyes one more time before
we do this.
ROBIN WRIGHT: Francis,
we're doing this.
He can't save us.
He invented term limits.
JEFFREY BROWN: Eric,
they are still doing it.
They are still plotting.
It goes on and on.
ERIC DEGGANS: Yes.
And, you know, I know
am so people have grown
tired of "House of Cards."
And I think, if you are one
of those people, you are not
going to necessarily like the
new season.
But the new season does have a
lot of political machinations
that I think are sort of the
heart of the show's appeal.
And it also really deals with
the tension and the partnership
between these two very
singular characters, Frank
Underwood by Kevin Spacey and
Claire Underwood played by Robin
Wright.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let's look
ahead at some new programs that
you are looking forward to.
Sonia, start us
off, start us off.
What are a couple of
things you really want
to let us know about?
SONIA SARAIYA: Yes, absolutely.
Well, there is this crazy
little show called "Claws" on
TNT that is debuting next week,
I think.
And it stars Niecy Nash as a
manicurist who kind of also
dabbles in some mob activity,
and it takes place in
Manatee County in Florida.
And just everything
about it is so different.
It is so different
from most other stuff
you would find on TV.
The nails are
amazing, obviously.
The fashion, the style
is just so much fun.
And you get to see these women
who are painting nails also
launder money and maybe commit
a few murders here and there.
There is something a little
bit silly and a little
bit fun about it too.
But it also really takes a
look at some of the real issues
that affect people in places
that don't often make
it to your TV screen.
So, I'm really looking forward
to see how that goes too.
ERIC DEGGANS: Well, you
mentioned at the start
of this segment "GLOW,"
the Netflix series
about the -- well,
the gorgeous ladies of
wrestling is what I think.
It is about the start of
a female wrestling league.
And it is really the start about
these sort of lovable losers
and their attempts to sort
of find themselves while
they build this very
fledgling operation,
which is a female-centered
wrestling league
in the mid-'80s.
And it is a show that
kind of sneaks up on you.
And, you know, Marc Maron is
great as the sort of B-movie
director who decides to try
and find another career by
starting this wrestling league.
And I would compare it a little
more favorably to another
show that you mentioned called
"I'm Dying Up Here," a Showtime
series about young comics
working out of a legendary comic
nightclub in Los Angeles.
It is fictionalized, but it
also has real people in it.
It is based on a book that
is actually about very real
comics like David Letterman and
Jay Leno and how they
started in Los Angeles.
And because the show has a hard
time walking that line between
fictional characters that
it takes liberties with and
real characters, like Johnny
Carson and Richard Pryor, who
also show up, I think
the show isn't quite as
impactful as it could be.
But it is also a show about
lovable losers trying to find
themselves and make it in an
industry that is really very
difficult, which is Hollywood
in the late 1970s, early '80s.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
one bonus, real quick for me,
if you would, some show that
you love, but you
don't think has gotten
enough attention, Eric?
ERIC DEGGANS: It's not
in new episodes yet.
It will come back.
It is a show called
"Throwing Shade" on TV Land.
It is a late-night talk show
with a feminist and a gay man
talking about the day's news,
two points of view that are
woefully underrepresented
in the late-night scheme.
I thought it was
brilliant when it was on.
And it should come back to
new episodes relatively soon.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
Sonia?
SONIA SARAIYA: I am going to
go with "The Carmichael Show."
It is an NBC sitcom that is
coming into its third season.
It is this little show that
has been running on the summer.
And I feel like, every season,
it comes up with even more
topics and even more humor
than -- to tackle in this,
like, fascinating way that --
I just think everyone should be
watching this show.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sonia Saraiya
of "Variety," Eric Deggans of
NPR, thank you both very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right now: Wondering
what to get for the new graduate
in your life?
A Chicago bookstore
shares five great books
that offer heartfelt
wisdom about -- without
being trite.
All that and more is on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And Robert Costa is preparing
for "Washington Week," which
airs later tonight on PBS.
So, Bob, what's on tap?
ROBERT COSTA: Well, Judy,
tonight, the deal-maker
becomes disrupter in chief.
Our reporters roundtable
will take a closer
look at the controversy
behind President Trump's
decision to ditch the
Paris climate treaty.
That's later tonight on
"Washington Week" - - Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you
know we will be watching.
And tomorrow on "PBS NewsHour
Weekend," a report from
Cambodia, where rapid economic
growth is forcing
many from their homes.
And that's the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.